output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/600.wav|Wakefield Student, Tim Spicer: Good Morning. I would like to extend a warm
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/2734.wav|welcome to President Barack Obama,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/4767.wav|Secretary of education Arnie Duncan, White House staff,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/8800.wav|school board members, county board members,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/12166.wav|superintendent Dr. Patrick Murphy, senior staff,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/15867.wav|principle George Jackson, Wakefield faculty and of course
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/19867.wav|my fellow classmates.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/26533.wav|I am honored to have been chosen to speak before my
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/28667.wav|classmates as well as the students across America today.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/32567.wav|Over the past three years, I've taken advantage of every
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/35066.wav|academic, extracurricular and community opportunity that has
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/39066.wav|been presented to me.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/41467.wav|As I reflect, a scholar expressed disappointment in my
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/44266.wav|writing and challenged me to do better; being reassigned to
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/47033.wav|another class was not an option.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/49133.wav|After that experience, I was determined to excel.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/52200.wav|Therefore, I managed to succeed in the advanced placement class
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/55767.wav|by maintaining focus along with using a
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/57867.wav|setback as constructive energy.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/60266.wav|As I stand before my peers today, I want you to know that
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/63767.wav|excellent education opportunities may be handed
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/66467.wav|to us, but as students we must take responsibilities
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/69100.wav|for our future.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/70767.wav|We may be taught but we must take ownership of our learning.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/74100.wav|As senior class president I encourage all of our freshmen to
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/77200.wav|take advantage of all the opportunity's that Wakefield
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/79567.wav|High School has to offer.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/82066.wav|Along with the inspiration I've taken from President Obama,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/85266.wav|I would not be standing here, before you, to introduce the
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/88467.wav|President of the United States if I had not been here at
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/91834.wav|Wakefield high school, in Arlington Virginia, pursuing my
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/94433.wav|education. Just as we are fortunate to have President
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/97300.wav|Obama to come here to Wakefield today to speak to us,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/100600.wav|we are also fortunate that after he leaves, we will continue to
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/103967.wav|have the opportunities and support that Wakefield
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/106800.wav|gives to all of us.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/108800.wav|At this time it is with great honor and pride that I ask
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/112133.wav|everyone to stand to welcome the --
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/119300.wav|-- to welcome the man that proved yes we can.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/122600.wav|Ladies and Gentleman please join me in welcoming the President of
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/126000.wav|the United States of America, Barack Obama.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/148900.wav|The President: Hello, everybody!
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/153400.wav|Thank you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/155033.wav|Thank you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/156867.wav|Thank you, everybody. All right, everybody go ahead
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/158900.wav|and have a seat. How is everybody doing today?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/166533.wav|How about Tim Spicer?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/173767.wav|I am here with students at
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/176934.wav|Wakefield High School in Arlington, Virginia.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/180700.wav|And we've got students tuning in from all across America,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/185633.wav|from kindergarten through 12th grade.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/188166.wav|And I am just so glad that all could join us today.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/191700.wav|And I want to thank Wakefield for being such an outstanding
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/194500.wav|host. Give yourselves a big round of applause.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/202400.wav|I know that for many of you, today is the first
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/207734.wav|day of school. And for those of you in kindergarten,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/209500.wav|or starting middle or high school,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/212066.wav|it's your first day in a new school,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/214266.wav|so it's understandable if you're a little nervous.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/218567.wav|I imagine there are some seniors out there who are feeling pretty
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/220734.wav|good right now --
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/222934.wav|-- with just one more year to go.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/226700.wav|And no matter what grade you're in,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/228734.wav|some of you are probably wishing it were still summer and you
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/231533.wav|could've stayed in bed just a little bit longer this morning.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/235867.wav|I know that feeling.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/239567.wav|When I was young, my family lived overseas.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/243066.wav|I lived in Indonesia for a few years.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/245367.wav|And my mother, she didn't have the money to send me where all
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/248834.wav|the American kids went to school,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/250800.wav|but she thought it was important for me to keep up with an
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/254567.wav|American education. So she decided to teach me extra 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/258399.wav|lessons herself, Monday through Friday.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/261934.wav|But because she had to go to work,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/263400.wav|the only time she could do it was at 4:30 in the morning.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/267900.wav|Now, as you might imagine, I wasn't too happy about getting
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/270333.wav|up that early.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/272000.wav|And a lot of times, I'd fall asleep right there at
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/274300.wav|the kitchen table. But whenever I'd complain, my mother would
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/277700.wav|just give me one of those looks and she'd say, This is no 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/280767.wav|picnic for me either, buster.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/285033.wav|So I know that some of you are still adjusting to being back at
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/288100.wav|school. But I'm here today because I have something
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/291500.wav|important to discuss with you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/293767.wav|I'm here because I want to talk with you about your education
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/297367.wav|and what's expected of all of you in this new school year.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/302467.wav|Now, I've given a lot of speeches about education.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/304667.wav|And I've talked about responsibility a lot.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/308767.wav|I've talked about teachers' responsibility for inspiring
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/312700.wav|students and pushing you to learn.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/315433.wav|I've talked about your parents' responsibility for making sure
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/319166.wav|you stay on track, and you get your homework done,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/321133.wav|and don't spend every waking hour in front of the TV or
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/325100.wav|with the Xbox. I've talked a lot about your government's
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/330266.wav|responsibility for setting high standards, and supporting 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/333500.wav|teachers and principals, and turning around schools that 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/336300.wav|aren't working, where students aren't getting the opportunities 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/339900.wav|that they deserve.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/341900.wav|But at the end of the day, we can have the most dedicated
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/345066.wav|teachers, the most supportive parents,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/347700.wav|the best schools in the world -- and none of it will make a
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/351433.wav|difference, none of it will matter unless all of you fulfill
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/356300.wav|your responsibilities, unless you show up to those schools,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/361333.wav|unless you pay attention to those teachers,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/363700.wav|unless you listen to your parents and grandparents and
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/366433.wav|other adults and put in the hard work it takes to succeed.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/372667.wav|That's what I want to focus on today:
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/375233.wav|the responsibility each of you has for your education.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/379633.wav|I want to start with the responsibility you have
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/381667.wav|to yourself. Every single one of you has something that you're
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/386033.wav|good at. Every single one of you has something to offer.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/390900.wav|And you have a responsibility to yourself to
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/393700.wav|discover what that is.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/396266.wav|That's the opportunity an education can provide.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/400400.wav|Maybe you could be a great writer -- maybe even good enough
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/403700.wav|to write a book or articles in a newspaper -- but you might not
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/407233.wav|know it until you write that English paper -- that English
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/409367.wav|class paper that's assigned to you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/414567.wav|Maybe you could be an innovator or an inventor -- maybe even
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/417300.wav|good enough to come up with the next iPhone or the new medicine
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/420533.wav|or vaccine -- but you might not know it until you do your
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/424467.wav|project for your science class.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/427767.wav|Maybe you could be a mayor or a senator or a Supreme Court
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/431633.wav|justice -- but you might not know that until you join student
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/435734.wav|government or the debate team.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/439533.wav|And no matter what you want to do with your life,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/441700.wav|I guarantee that you'll need an education to do it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/445233.wav|You want to be a doctor, or a teacher, or a police officer?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/448934.wav|You want to be a nurse or an architect,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/450934.wav|a lawyer or a member of our military?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/453367.wav|You're going to need a good education for every single one
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/456233.wav|of those careers.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/458000.wav|You cannot drop out of school and just drop into a good job.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/463066.wav|You've got to train for it and work for it and learn for it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/468400.wav|And this isn't just important for your own life and
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/470333.wav|your own future. What you make of your education will decide
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/474500.wav|nothing less than the future of this country.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/477934.wav|The future of America depends on you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/482133.wav|What you're learning in school today will determine whether we
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/484900.wav|as a nation can meet our greatest challenges
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/488000.wav|in the future. You'll need the knowledge and problem-solving
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/491800.wav|skills you learn in science and math to cure diseases like 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/495967.wav|cancer and AIDS, and to develop new energy technologies and 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/498567.wav|protect our environment.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/500767.wav|You'll need the insights and critical-thinking skills you
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/503800.wav|gain in history and social studies to fight poverty and
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/506433.wav|homelessness, crime and discrimination,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/508867.wav|and make our nation more fair and more free.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/512667.wav|You'll need the creativity and ingenuity you develop in all
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/515633.wav|your classes to build new companies that will create new
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/518799.wav|jobs and boost our economy.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/520933.wav|We need every single one of you to develop your talents and your
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/524033.wav|skills and your intellect so you can help us old folks solve our
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/529333.wav|most difficult problems.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/531967.wav|If you don't do that -- if you quit on school -- you're not
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/536300.wav|just quitting on yourself, you're quitting on your country.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/540500.wav|Now, I know it's not always easy to do well in school.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/543800.wav|I know a lot of you have challenges in your lives right
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/545767.wav|now that can make it hard to focus on your schoolwork.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/550567.wav|I get it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/551100.wav|I know what it's like.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/553000.wav|My father left my family when I was two years old,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/556266.wav|and I was raised by a single mom who had to work and who
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/559333.wav|struggled at times to pay the bills and wasn't always able to
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/561900.wav|give us the things that other kids had.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/565266.wav|There were times when I missed having a father in my life.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/569033.wav|There were times when I was lonely and I felt
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/570667.wav|like I didn't fit in.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/572967.wav|So I wasn't always as focused as I should have been on school,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/575967.wav|and I did some things I'm not proud of,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/577633.wav|and I got in more trouble than I should have.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/580700.wav|And my life could have easily taken a turn for the worse.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/586367.wav|But I was -- I was lucky.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/588667.wav|I got a lot of second chances, and I had the opportunity to go
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/591233.wav|to college and law school and follow my dreams.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/595000.wav|My wife, our First Lady Michelle Obama, she has a similar story.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/599300.wav|Neither of her parents had gone to college,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/601967.wav|and they didn't have a lot of money.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/604166.wav|But they worked hard, and she worked hard,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/606133.wav|so that she could go to the best schools in this country.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/610300.wav|Some of you might not have those advantages.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/612200.wav|Maybe you don't have adults in your life who give you the
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/615700.wav|support that you need.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/617767.wav|Maybe someone in your family has lost their job and there's not
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/620166.wav|enough money to go around.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/622300.wav|Maybe you live in a neighborhood where you don't feel safe,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/625600.wav|or have friends who are pressuring you to do things you
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/628667.wav|know aren't right.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/630834.wav|But at the end of the day, the circumstances of your life --
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/635333.wav|what you look like, where you come from,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/637100.wav|how much money you have, what you've got going on at home --
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/641467.wav|none of that is an excuse for neglecting your homework or
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/644133.wav|having a bad attitude in school.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/646834.wav|That's no excuse for talking back to your teacher,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/649600.wav|or cutting class, or dropping out of school.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/652100.wav|There is no excuse for not trying.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/657033.wav|Where you are right now doesn't have to determine
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/659066.wav|where you'll end up.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/661200.wav|No one's written your destiny for you,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/663433.wav|because here in America, you write your own destiny.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/666467.wav|You make your own future.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/669233.wav|That's what young people like you are doing every day,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/672166.wav|all across America.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/674667.wav|Young people like Jazmin Perez, from Roma, Texas.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/678633.wav|Jazmin didn't speak English when she first started school.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/682266.wav|Neither of her parents had gone to college.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/684633.wav|But she worked hard, earned good grades,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/687000.wav|and got a scholarship to Brown University -- is
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/689567.wav|now in graduate school, studying public
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/691433.wav|health, on her way to becoming Dr. Jazmin Perez.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/697166.wav|I'm thinking about Andoni Schultz, from Los Altos,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/700967.wav|California, who's fought brain cancer since he was three.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/706367.wav|He's had to endure all sorts of treatments and surgeries,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/709867.wav|one of which affected his memory,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/711767.wav|so it took him much longer -- hundreds of extra hours --
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/714467.wav|to do his schoolwork.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/716900.wav|But he never fell behind.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/719166.wav|He's headed to college this fall.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/722333.wav|And then there's Shantell Steve, from my
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/724200.wav|hometown of Chicago, Illinois.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/726834.wav|Even when bouncing from foster home to foster home in the
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/729834.wav|toughest neighborhoods in the city,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/732333.wav|she managed to get a job at a local health care center,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/735734.wav|start a program to keep young people out of gangs,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/738667.wav|and she's on track to graduate high school with honors and
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/741033.wav|go on to college.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/743600.wav|And Jazmin, Andoni, and Shantell aren't any different
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/748433.wav|from any of you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/750233.wav|They face challenges in their lives just like you do.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/753667.wav|In some cases they've got it a lot worse off than many of you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/758700.wav|But they refused to give up.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/761033.wav|They chose to take responsibility for their lives,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/764200.wav|for their education, and set goals for themselves.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/766900.wav|And I expect all of you to do the same.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/770700.wav|That's why today I'm calling on each of you to set your own
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/772867.wav|goals for your education -- and do everything
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/775533.wav|you can to meet them.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/777600.wav|Your goal can be something as simple as doing all your
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/780233.wav|homework, paying attention in class,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/783066.wav|or spending some time each day reading a book.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/788367.wav|Maybe you'll decide to get involved in an extracurricular
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/790600.wav|activity, or volunteer in your community.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/794000.wav|Maybe you'll decide to stand up for kids who are being teased or
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/797033.wav|bullied because of who they are or how they look,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/801600.wav|because you believe, like I do, that all young people deserve a
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/805433.wav|safe environment to study and learn.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/808967.wav|Maybe you'll decide to take better care of yourself so you
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/810967.wav|can be more ready to learn.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/813467.wav|And along those lines, by the way,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/814700.wav|I hope all of you are washing your hands a lot,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/817734.wav|and that you stay home from school when you don't feel well,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/819767.wav|so we can keep people from getting the flu
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/822367.wav|this fall and winter.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/824633.wav|But whatever you resolve to do, I want you to commit to it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/829000.wav|I want you to really work at it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/831667.wav|I know that sometimes you get that sense from TV that you can
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/834100.wav|be rich and successful without any hard work -- that your
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/837533.wav|ticket to success is through rapping or basketball
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/840867.wav|or being a reality TV star.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/845400.wav|Chances are you're not going to be any of those things.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/849266.wav|The truth is, being successful is hard.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/854100.wav|You won't love every subject that you study.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/858367.wav|You won't click with every teacher that you have.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/862800.wav|Not every homework assignment will seem completely relevant to
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/866834.wav|your life right at this minute.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/870433.wav|And you won't necessarily succeed at everything the first
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/873800.wav|time you try. That's okay.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/877967.wav|Some of the most successful people in the world are the ones
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/880333.wav|who've had the most failures.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/884467.wav|J.K. Rowling's -- who wrote Harry Potter -- her first
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/889834.wav|Harry Potter book was rejected 12 times 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/893133.wav|before it was finally published.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/896166.wav|Michael Jordan was cut from his high school basketball team.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/900600.wav|He lost hundreds of games and missed thousands of
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/903400.wav|shots during his career. But he once said,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/906400.wav|I have failed over and over and over again in my life.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/909934.wav|And that's why I succeed.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/914000.wav|These people succeeded because they understood that you can't
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/918233.wav|let your failures define you -- you have to let
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/920967.wav|your failures teach you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/923333.wav|You have to let them show you what to do
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/925233.wav|differently the next time.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/928133.wav|So if you get into trouble, that doesn't mean you're a
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/930233.wav|troublemaker, it means you need to try harder to act right.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/936567.wav|If you get a bad grade, that doesn't mean you're stupid,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/938600.wav|it just means you need to spend more time studying.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/943600.wav|No one's born being good at all things.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/946934.wav|You become good at things through hard work.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/951400.wav|You're not a varsity athlete the first time you play a new sport.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/954467.wav|You don't hit every note the first time you sing a song.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/957200.wav|You've got to practice.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/959033.wav|The same principle applies to your schoolwork.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/963000.wav|You might have to do a math problem a few times before you
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/965400.wav|get it right.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/966433.wav|You might have to read something a few times
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/967967.wav|before you understand it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/969800.wav|You definitely have to do a few drafts of a paper before it's
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/973133.wav|good enough to hand in.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/976800.wav|Don't be afraid to ask questions.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/978900.wav|Don't be afraid to ask for help when you need it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/981200.wav|I do that every day.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/983767.wav|Asking for help isn't a sign of weakness,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/985400.wav|it's a sign of strength because it shows you have the courage to
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/988400.wav|admit when you don't know something,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/990767.wav|and that then allows you to learn something new.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/994934.wav|So find an adult that you trust -- a parent,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/997233.wav|a grandparent or teacher, a coach or a counselor -- and ask
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1001200.wav|them to help you stay on track to meet your goals.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1006166.wav|And even when you're struggling, even when you're discouraged,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1009233.wav|and you feel like other people have given up on you,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1013033.wav|don't ever give up on yourself, because when you give up on
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1016834.wav|yourself, you give up on your country.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1021233.wav|The story of America isn't about people who quit
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1023400.wav|when things got tough.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1025333.wav|It's about people who kept going, who tried harder,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1027567.wav|who loved their country too much to do anything
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1029934.wav|less than their best.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1032300.wav|It's the story of students who sat where you sit 250 years ago,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1036867.wav|and went on to wage a revolution and they founded this nation.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1040367.wav|Young people.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1042633.wav|Students who sat where you sit 75 years ago who overcame a
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1045800.wav|Depression and won a world war; who fought for civil rights and
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1049967.wav|put a man on the moon.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1052333.wav|Students who sat where you sit 20 years ago who founded Google
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1055633.wav|and Twitter and Facebook and changed the way we communicate
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1058734.wav|with each other.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1061533.wav|So today, I want to ask all of you,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1064633.wav|what's your contribution going to be?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1067400.wav|What problems are you going to solve?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1070333.wav|What discoveries will you make?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1074300.wav|What will a President who comes here in 20 or 50 or 100 years
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1077333.wav|say about what all of you did for this country?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1082133.wav|Now, your families, your teachers,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1083800.wav|and I are doing everything we can to make sure you have the
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1086433.wav|education you need to answer these questions.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1090000.wav|I'm working hard to fix up your classrooms and get you the books
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1092700.wav|and the equipment and the computers you need to learn.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1096300.wav|But you've got to do your part, too.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1099266.wav|So I expect all of you to get serious this year.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1104033.wav|I expect you to put your best effort into everything you do.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1108367.wav|I expect great things from each of you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1112867.wav|So don't let us down.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1115000.wav|Don't let your family down or your country down.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1117400.wav|Most of all, don't let yourself down.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1121400.wav|Make us all proud.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1123400.wav|Thank you very much, everybody.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1124967.wav|God bless you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1125667.wav|God bless America.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1128367.wav|Thank you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/180700.wav|And we've got students tuning in from all across America,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/185633.wav|from kindergarten through 12th grade.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/188166.wav|And I am just so glad that all could join us today.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/191700.wav|And I want to thank Wakefield for being such an outstanding
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/194500.wav|host. Give yourselves a big round of applause.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/202400.wav|I know that for many of you, today is the first
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/207734.wav|day of school. And for those of you in kindergarten,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/209500.wav|or starting middle or high school,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/212066.wav|it's your first day in a new school,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/214266.wav|so it's understandable if you're a little nervous.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/218567.wav|I imagine there are some seniors out there who are feeling pretty
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/220734.wav|good right now --
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/222934.wav|-- with just one more year to go.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/226700.wav|And no matter what grade you're in,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/228734.wav|some of you are probably wishing it were still summer and you
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/231533.wav|could've stayed in bed just a little bit longer this morning.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/235867.wav|I know that feeling.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/239567.wav|When I was young, my family lived overseas.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/243066.wav|I lived in Indonesia for a few years.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/245367.wav|And my mother, she didn't have the money to send me where all
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/248834.wav|the American kids went to school,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/250800.wav|but she thought it was important for me to keep up with an
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/254567.wav|American education. So she decided to teach me extra 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/258399.wav|lessons herself, Monday through Friday.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/261934.wav|But because she had to go to work,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/263400.wav|the only time she could do it was at 4:30 in the morning.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/267900.wav|Now, as you might imagine, I wasn't too happy about getting
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/270333.wav|up that early.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/272000.wav|And a lot of times, I'd fall asleep right there at
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/274300.wav|the kitchen table. But whenever I'd complain, my mother would
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/277700.wav|just give me one of those looks and she'd say, This is no 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/280767.wav|picnic for me either, buster.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/285033.wav|So I know that some of you are still adjusting to being back at
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/288100.wav|school. But I'm here today because I have something
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/291500.wav|important to discuss with you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/293767.wav|I'm here because I want to talk with you about your education
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/297367.wav|and what's expected of all of you in this new school year.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/302467.wav|Now, I've given a lot of speeches about education.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/304667.wav|And I've talked about responsibility a lot.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/308767.wav|I've talked about teachers' responsibility for inspiring
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/312700.wav|students and pushing you to learn.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/315433.wav|I've talked about your parents' responsibility for making sure
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/319166.wav|you stay on track, and you get your homework done,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/321133.wav|and don't spend every waking hour in front of the TV or
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/325100.wav|with the Xbox. I've talked a lot about your government's
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/330266.wav|responsibility for setting high standards, and supporting 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/333500.wav|teachers and principals, and turning around schools that 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/336300.wav|aren't working, where students aren't getting the opportunities 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/339900.wav|that they deserve.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/341900.wav|But at the end of the day, we can have the most dedicated
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/345066.wav|teachers, the most supportive parents,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/347700.wav|the best schools in the world -- and none of it will make a
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/351433.wav|difference, none of it will matter unless all of you fulfill
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/356300.wav|your responsibilities, unless you show up to those schools,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/361333.wav|unless you pay attention to those teachers,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/363700.wav|unless you listen to your parents and grandparents and
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/366433.wav|other adults and put in the hard work it takes to succeed.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/372667.wav|That's what I want to focus on today:
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/375233.wav|the responsibility each of you has for your education.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/379633.wav|I want to start with the responsibility you have
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/381667.wav|to yourself. Every single one of you has something that you're
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/386033.wav|good at. Every single one of you has something to offer.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/390900.wav|And you have a responsibility to yourself to
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/393700.wav|discover what that is.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/396266.wav|That's the opportunity an education can provide.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/400400.wav|Maybe you could be a great writer -- maybe even good enough
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/403700.wav|to write a book or articles in a newspaper -- but you might not
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/407233.wav|know it until you write that English paper -- that English
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/409367.wav|class paper that's assigned to you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/414567.wav|Maybe you could be an innovator or an inventor -- maybe even
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/417300.wav|good enough to come up with the next iPhone or the new medicine
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/420533.wav|or vaccine -- but you might not know it until you do your
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/424467.wav|project for your science class.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/427767.wav|Maybe you could be a mayor or a senator or a Supreme Court
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/431633.wav|justice -- but you might not know that until you join student
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/435734.wav|government or the debate team.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/439533.wav|And no matter what you want to do with your life,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/441700.wav|I guarantee that you'll need an education to do it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/445233.wav|You want to be a doctor, or a teacher, or a police officer?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/448934.wav|You want to be a nurse or an architect,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/450934.wav|a lawyer or a member of our military?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/453367.wav|You're going to need a good education for every single one
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/456233.wav|of those careers.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/458000.wav|You cannot drop out of school and just drop into a good job.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/463066.wav|You've got to train for it and work for it and learn for it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/468400.wav|And this isn't just important for your own life and
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/470333.wav|your own future. What you make of your education will decide
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/474500.wav|nothing less than the future of this country.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/477934.wav|The future of America depends on you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/482133.wav|What you're learning in school today will determine whether we
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/484900.wav|as a nation can meet our greatest challenges
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/488000.wav|in the future. You'll need the knowledge and problem-solving
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/491800.wav|skills you learn in science and math to cure diseases like 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/495967.wav|cancer and AIDS, and to develop new energy technologies and 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/498567.wav|protect our environment.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/500767.wav|You'll need the insights and critical-thinking skills you
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/503800.wav|gain in history and social studies to fight poverty and
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/506433.wav|homelessness, crime and discrimination,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/508867.wav|and make our nation more fair and more free.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/512667.wav|You'll need the creativity and ingenuity you develop in all
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/515633.wav|your classes to build new companies that will create new
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/518799.wav|jobs and boost our economy.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/520933.wav|We need every single one of you to develop your talents and your
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/524033.wav|skills and your intellect so you can help us old folks solve our
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/529333.wav|most difficult problems.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/531967.wav|If you don't do that -- if you quit on school -- you're not
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/536300.wav|just quitting on yourself, you're quitting on your country.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/540500.wav|Now, I know it's not always easy to do well in school.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/543800.wav|I know a lot of you have challenges in your lives right
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/545767.wav|now that can make it hard to focus on your schoolwork.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/550567.wav|I get it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/551100.wav|I know what it's like.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/553000.wav|My father left my family when I was two years old,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/556266.wav|and I was raised by a single mom who had to work and who
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/559333.wav|struggled at times to pay the bills and wasn't always able to
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/561900.wav|give us the things that other kids had.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/565266.wav|There were times when I missed having a father in my life.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/569033.wav|There were times when I was lonely and I felt
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/570667.wav|like I didn't fit in.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/572967.wav|So I wasn't always as focused as I should have been on school,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/575967.wav|and I did some things I'm not proud of,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/577633.wav|and I got in more trouble than I should have.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/580700.wav|And my life could have easily taken a turn for the worse.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/586367.wav|But I was -- I was lucky.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/588667.wav|I got a lot of second chances, and I had the opportunity to go
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/591233.wav|to college and law school and follow my dreams.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/595000.wav|My wife, our First Lady Michelle Obama, she has a similar story.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/599300.wav|Neither of her parents had gone to college,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/601967.wav|and they didn't have a lot of money.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/604166.wav|But they worked hard, and she worked hard,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/606133.wav|so that she could go to the best schools in this country.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/610300.wav|Some of you might not have those advantages.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/612200.wav|Maybe you don't have adults in your life who give you the
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/615700.wav|support that you need.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/617767.wav|Maybe someone in your family has lost their job and there's not
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/620166.wav|enough money to go around.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/622300.wav|Maybe you live in a neighborhood where you don't feel safe,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/625600.wav|or have friends who are pressuring you to do things you
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/628667.wav|know aren't right.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/630834.wav|But at the end of the day, the circumstances of your life --
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/635333.wav|what you look like, where you come from,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/637100.wav|how much money you have, what you've got going on at home --
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/641467.wav|none of that is an excuse for neglecting your homework or
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/644133.wav|having a bad attitude in school.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/646834.wav|That's no excuse for talking back to your teacher,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/649600.wav|or cutting class, or dropping out of school.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/652100.wav|There is no excuse for not trying.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/657033.wav|Where you are right now doesn't have to determine
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/659066.wav|where you'll end up.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/661200.wav|No one's written your destiny for you,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/663433.wav|because here in America, you write your own destiny.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/666467.wav|You make your own future.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/669233.wav|That's what young people like you are doing every day,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/672166.wav|all across America.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/674667.wav|Young people like Jazmin Perez, from Roma, Texas.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/678633.wav|Jazmin didn't speak English when she first started school.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/682266.wav|Neither of her parents had gone to college.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/684633.wav|But she worked hard, earned good grades,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/687000.wav|and got a scholarship to Brown University -- is
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/689567.wav|now in graduate school, studying public
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/691433.wav|health, on her way to becoming Dr. Jazmin Perez.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/697166.wav|I'm thinking about Andoni Schultz, from Los Altos,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/700967.wav|California, who's fought brain cancer since he was three.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/706367.wav|He's had to endure all sorts of treatments and surgeries,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/709867.wav|one of which affected his memory,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/711767.wav|so it took him much longer -- hundreds of extra hours --
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/714467.wav|to do his schoolwork.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/716900.wav|But he never fell behind.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/719166.wav|He's headed to college this fall.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/722333.wav|And then there's Shantell Steve, from my
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/724200.wav|hometown of Chicago, Illinois.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/726834.wav|Even when bouncing from foster home to foster home in the
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/729834.wav|toughest neighborhoods in the city,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/732333.wav|she managed to get a job at a local health care center,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/735734.wav|start a program to keep young people out of gangs,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/738667.wav|and she's on track to graduate high school with honors and
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/741033.wav|go on to college.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/743600.wav|And Jazmin, Andoni, and Shantell aren't any different
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/748433.wav|from any of you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/750233.wav|They face challenges in their lives just like you do.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/753667.wav|In some cases they've got it a lot worse off than many of you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/758700.wav|But they refused to give up.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/761033.wav|They chose to take responsibility for their lives,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/764200.wav|for their education, and set goals for themselves.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/766900.wav|And I expect all of you to do the same.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/770700.wav|That's why today I'm calling on each of you to set your own
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/772867.wav|goals for your education -- and do everything
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/775533.wav|you can to meet them.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/777600.wav|Your goal can be something as simple as doing all your
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/780233.wav|homework, paying attention in class,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/783066.wav|or spending some time each day reading a book.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/788367.wav|Maybe you'll decide to get involved in an extracurricular
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/790600.wav|activity, or volunteer in your community.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/794000.wav|Maybe you'll decide to stand up for kids who are being teased or
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/797033.wav|bullied because of who they are or how they look,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/801600.wav|because you believe, like I do, that all young people deserve a
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/805433.wav|safe environment to study and learn.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/808967.wav|Maybe you'll decide to take better care of yourself so you
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/810967.wav|can be more ready to learn.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/813467.wav|And along those lines, by the way,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/814700.wav|I hope all of you are washing your hands a lot,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/817734.wav|and that you stay home from school when you don't feel well,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/819767.wav|so we can keep people from getting the flu
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/822367.wav|this fall and winter.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/824633.wav|But whatever you resolve to do, I want you to commit to it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/829000.wav|I want you to really work at it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/831667.wav|I know that sometimes you get that sense from TV that you can
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/834100.wav|be rich and successful without any hard work -- that your
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/837533.wav|ticket to success is through rapping or basketball
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/840867.wav|or being a reality TV star.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/845400.wav|Chances are you're not going to be any of those things.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/849266.wav|The truth is, being successful is hard.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/854100.wav|You won't love every subject that you study.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/858367.wav|You won't click with every teacher that you have.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/862800.wav|Not every homework assignment will seem completely relevant to
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/866834.wav|your life right at this minute.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/870433.wav|And you won't necessarily succeed at everything the first
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/873800.wav|time you try. That's okay.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/877967.wav|Some of the most successful people in the world are the ones
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/880333.wav|who've had the most failures.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/884467.wav|J.K. Rowling's -- who wrote Harry Potter -- her first
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/889834.wav|Harry Potter book was rejected 12 times 
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/893133.wav|before it was finally published.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/896166.wav|Michael Jordan was cut from his high school basketball team.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/900600.wav|He lost hundreds of games and missed thousands of
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/903400.wav|shots during his career. But he once said,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/906400.wav|I have failed over and over and over again in my life.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/909934.wav|And that's why I succeed.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/914000.wav|These people succeeded because they understood that you can't
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/918233.wav|let your failures define you -- you have to let
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/920967.wav|your failures teach you.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/923333.wav|You have to let them show you what to do
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/925233.wav|differently the next time.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/928133.wav|So if you get into trouble, that doesn't mean you're a
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/930233.wav|troublemaker, it means you need to try harder to act right.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/936567.wav|If you get a bad grade, that doesn't mean you're stupid,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/938600.wav|it just means you need to spend more time studying.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/943600.wav|No one's born being good at all things.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/946934.wav|You become good at things through hard work.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/951400.wav|You're not a varsity athlete the first time you play a new sport.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/954467.wav|You don't hit every note the first time you sing a song.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/957200.wav|You've got to practice.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/959033.wav|The same principle applies to your schoolwork.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/963000.wav|You might have to do a math problem a few times before you
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/965400.wav|get it right.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/966433.wav|You might have to read something a few times
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/967967.wav|before you understand it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/969800.wav|You definitely have to do a few drafts of a paper before it's
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/973133.wav|good enough to hand in.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/976800.wav|Don't be afraid to ask questions.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/978900.wav|Don't be afraid to ask for help when you need it.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/981200.wav|I do that every day.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/983767.wav|Asking for help isn't a sign of weakness,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/985400.wav|it's a sign of strength because it shows you have the courage to
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/988400.wav|admit when you don't know something,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/990767.wav|and that then allows you to learn something new.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/994934.wav|So find an adult that you trust -- a parent,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/997233.wav|a grandparent or teacher, a coach or a counselor -- and ask
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1001200.wav|them to help you stay on track to meet your goals.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1006166.wav|And even when you're struggling, even when you're discouraged,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1009233.wav|and you feel like other people have given up on you,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1013033.wav|don't ever give up on yourself, because when you give up on
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1016834.wav|yourself, you give up on your country.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1021233.wav|The story of America isn't about people who quit
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1023400.wav|when things got tough.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1025333.wav|It's about people who kept going, who tried harder,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1027567.wav|who loved their country too much to do anything
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1029934.wav|less than their best.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1032300.wav|It's the story of students who sat where you sit 250 years ago,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1036867.wav|and went on to wage a revolution and they founded this nation.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1040367.wav|Young people.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1042633.wav|Students who sat where you sit 75 years ago who overcame a
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1045800.wav|Depression and won a world war; who fought for civil rights and
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1049967.wav|put a man on the moon.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1052333.wav|Students who sat where you sit 20 years ago who founded Google
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1055633.wav|and Twitter and Facebook and changed the way we communicate
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1058734.wav|with each other.
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1061533.wav|So today, I want to ask all of you,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1064633.wav|what's your contribution going to be?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1067400.wav|What problems are you going to solve?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1070333.wav|What discoveries will you make?
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/1074300.wav|What will a President who comes here in 20 or 50 or 100 years
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/4767.wav|Secretary of education Arnie Duncan, White House staff,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/8800.wav|school board members, county board members,
output_data/8ZZ6GrzWkw0/12166.wav|superintendent Dr. Patrick Murphy, senior staff,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1101.wav|The President: Thank you so much.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/5438.wav|Thank you.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/15815.wav|You're very kind.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/16983.wav|Thank you very much.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/19152.wav|Well, good morning.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/20520.wav|Audience: Good morning.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/21821.wav|The President: Giving all praise and honor to God for
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/24758.wav|bringing us together here this morning.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/28461.wav|I want to thank everyone who helped organize this
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/30530.wav|breakfast, especially our co-chairs, Robert and Juan,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/34901.wav|who embody the tradition of friendship, fellowship,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/40473.wav|and prayer.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/43443.wav|I will begin with a confession: I have always
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/47213.wav|felt a tinge of guilt motorcading up here at the
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/52452.wav|heart of D.C.'s rush hour.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/58124.wav|I suspect that not all the commuters were blessing me
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/62429.wav|as they waited to get to work.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/68067.wav|But it's for a good cause.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/71438.wav|A National Prayer Brunch doesn't have the same ring
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/74340.wav|to it.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/76943.wav|And Michelle and I are extremely honored,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/79345.wav|as always, to be with so many friends,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/82215.wav|with members of Congress, with faith leaders from
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/86686.wav|across the country and around the world,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/88688.wav|to be with the Speaker, Leader.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/93927.wav|I want thank Mark and Roma for their friendship and
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/97096.wav|their extraordinary story, and sharing those
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/100800.wav|inspiring words.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/102302.wav|Andre, for sharing his remarkable gifts.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/108842.wav|And on this occasion, I always enjoy reflecting on a
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/112011.wav|piece of scripture that's been meaningful to me or
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/115515.wav|otherwise sustained me throughout the year.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/119519.wav|And lately, I've been thinking and praying on a
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/123690.wav|verse from Second Timothy: For God has not given us a
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/132432.wav|spirit of fear, but of power and of love
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/139138.wav|and of a sound mind.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/144811.wav|For God has not given us a spirit of fear,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/147580.wav|but of power and of love and of a sound mind.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/156356.wav|We live in extraordinary times.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/160426.wav|Times of extraordinary change.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/164197.wav|We're surrounded by tectonic shifts in technology and in
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/169102.wav|our economy; by destructive conflict,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/175375.wav|disruptions to our climate.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/179212.wav|And it all reshapes the way we work and the way we live.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/183116.wav|It's all amplified by a media that is unceasing,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/187520.wav|and that feeds 24/7 on our ever-shrinking
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/193660.wav|attention spans.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/197630.wav|And as a student of history, I often remind people that
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/200466.wav|the challenges that we face are not unique;
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/204337.wav|that in fact, the threats of previous eras -- civil war
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/208641.wav|or world war or cold war, depressions or famines --
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/215782.wav|those challenges put our own in perspective.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/221087.wav|Moreover, I believe that our unique strengths as a nation
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/226459.wav|make us better equipped than others to harness this
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/229562.wav|change to work for us, rather than against us.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/235568.wav|And yet, the sheer rapidity of change,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/240540.wav|and the uncertainty that it brings, is real.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/245178.wav|The hardship of a family trying to make ends meet.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/250817.wav|Refugees fleeing from a war-torn home.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/255154.wav|Those things are real.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/259125.wav|Terrorism, eroding shorelines
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/263296.wav|-- those things are real.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/267333.wav|Even the very progress that humanity has made,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/270870.wav|the affluence, the stability that so many of us enjoy,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/276709.wav|far greater prosperity than any previous generation of
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/283650.wav|humanity has experienced, shines a brighter light on
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/287954.wav|those who still struggle, reveal the gap in prospects
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/293693.wav|that exist for the children of the world.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/299599.wav|And that gap between want and plenty,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/302268.wav|it gives us vertigo.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/305838.wav|It can make us afraid, not only of the possibility that
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/310877.wav|progress will stall, but that maybe we have more to lose.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/322088.wav|And fear does funny things.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/327694.wav|Fear can lead us to lash out against those who are
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/330863.wav|different, or lead us to try to get some sinister other
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/340073.wav|under control.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/344277.wav|Alternatively, fear can lead us to succumb to despair,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/349215.wav|or paralysis, or cynicism.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/356856.wav|Fear can feed our most selfish impulses,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/360927.wav|and erode the bonds of community.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/366733.wav|It is a primal emotion -- fear
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/370269.wav|-- one that we all experience.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/372905.wav|And it can be contagious, spreading through societies,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/378811.wav|and through nations.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/382048.wav|And if we let it consume us, the consequences of that
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/388988.wav|fear can be worse than any outward threat.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/399966.wav|For me, and I know for so many of you,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/407740.wav|faith is the great cure for fear.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/417183.wav|Jesus is a good cure for fear.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/422555.wav|God gives believers the power, the love,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/428494.wav|the sound mind required to conquer any fear.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/435501.wav|And what more important moment for that faith than
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/439105.wav|right now?
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/440106.wav|What better time than these changing,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/445545.wav|tumultuous times to have Jesus standing beside us,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/450349.wav|steadying our minds, cleansing our hearts,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/455888.wav|pointing us towards what matters.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/469035.wav|His love gives us the power to resist
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/475174.wav|fear's temptations.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/478878.wav|He gives us the courage to reach out to others across
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/481447.wav|that divide, rather than push people away.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/489822.wav|He gives us the courage to go against the conventional
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/492692.wav|wisdom and stand up for what's right,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/497897.wav|even when it's not popular.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/503703.wav|To stand up not just to our enemies but, sometimes,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/505905.wav|to stand up to our friends.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/512879.wav|He gives us the fortitude to sacrifice ourselves
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/518351.wav|for a larger cause.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/521520.wav|Or to make tough decisions knowing that we can only
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/524123.wav|do our best.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/529528.wav|Less of me, more of God.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/534533.wav|And then, to have the courage to admit our
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/536636.wav|failings and our sins while pledging to learn from our
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/542942.wav|mistakes and to try to do better.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/552118.wav|Certainly, during the course of this enormous privilege
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/558491.wav|to have served as the President of the United
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/561227.wav|States, that's what faith has done for me.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/565064.wav|It helps me deal with the common,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/567066.wav|everyday fears that we all share.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/571003.wav|The main one I'm feeling right now is that our
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/573572.wav|children grow up too fast.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/581314.wav|They're leaving.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/584350.wav|That's a tough deal.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/588020.wav|And so, as a parent, you're worrying about will some
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/591457.wav|harm befall them, how are they going to manage without
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/595227.wav|you, did you miss some central moment in their lives.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/603369.wav|Will they call?
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/607773.wav|Or text?
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/614513.wav|Each day, we're fearful that God's purpose becomes
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/620987.wav|elusive, cloudy.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/624256.wav|We try to figure out how we fit into his broader plan.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/629128.wav|They're universal fears that we have,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/633799.wav|and my faith helps me to manage those.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/636736.wav|And then my faiths helps me to deal with some of the
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/640706.wav|unique elements of my job.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/646612.wav|As one of the great departed heroes of our age,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/649215.wav|Nelson Mandela, once said, I learned that courage was
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/652685.wav|not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it...
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/656789.wav|The brave man is not he who does not feel afraid,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/660926.wav|but he who conquers that fear.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/665331.wav|And certainly, there are times where I've had to
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/667600.wav|repeat that to myself while holding this office.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/672571.wav|When you hear from a parade of experts,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/674673.wav|just days after you're elected,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/676575.wav|that another Great Depression is a very real
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/678978.wav|possibility -- that will get your attention.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/686786.wav|When you tell a room full of young cadets that you've
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/692258.wav|made a decision to send them into harm's way,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/696562.wav|knowing that some of them might not return safely --
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/701634.wav|that's sobering.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/702635.wav|When you hold in your arms the mothers and fathers of
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/708707.wav|innocent children gunned down in their classroom --
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/712778.wav|that reminds you there's evil in the world.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/717883.wav|And so you come to understand what President
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/719885.wav|Lincoln meant when he said that he'd been driven to his
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/724190.wav|knees by the overwhelming conviction that he had no
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/726959.wav|place else to go.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/727960.wav|And so like every President, like every leader,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/734967.wav|like every person, I've known fear.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/740406.wav|But my faith tells me that I need not fear death;
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/748414.wav|that the acceptance of Christ promises everlasting
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/751383.wav|life and the washing away of sins.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/763095.wav|If Scripture instructs me to put on the full armor of
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/767199.wav|God so that when trouble comes, I'm able to stand,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/773973.wav|then surely I can face down these temporal setbacks,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/778310.wav|surely I can battle back doubts,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/780579.wav|surely I can rouse myself to action.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/787987.wav|And should that faith waver, should I lose my way,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/794894.wav|I have drawn strength not only from a remarkable wife,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/803035.wav|not only from incredible colleagues and friends,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/808240.wav|but I have drawn strength from witnessing all across
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/810910.wav|this country and all around this world, good people,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/816815.wav|of all faiths, who do the Lord's work each and every day.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/824256.wav|Who wield that power and love,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/826625.wav|and sound mind to feed the hungry and heal the sick,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/833999.wav|to teach our children and welcome the stranger.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/842308.wav|Think about the extraordinary work of the
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/844543.wav|congregations and faith communities represented
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/846912.wav|here today.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/848981.wav|Whether fighting global poverty or working to end
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/851951.wav|the scourge of human trafficking,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/855321.wav|you are the leaders of what Pope Francis calls this
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/858023.wav|march of living hope.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/863629.wav|When the Earth cleaves in Haiti, Christians, Sikhs,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/869435.wav|and other faith groups sent volunteers to distribute
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/872404.wav|aid, tend to the wounded, rebuild homes
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/875374.wav|for the homeless.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/878644.wav|When Ebola ravaged West Africa, Jewish, Christian,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/882448.wav|Muslim groups responded to the outbreak to save lives.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/888921.wav|And as the news fanned the flames of fear,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/891390.wav|churches and mosques responded with a powerful
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/893959.wav|rebuke, welcoming survivors into their pews.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/902568.wav|When nine worshippers were murdered in a Charleston
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/905304.wav|church basement, it was people of all faiths who
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/909174.wav|came together to wrap a shattered community in love
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/914313.wav|and understanding.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/920085.wav|When Syrian refugees seek the sanctuary of our shores,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/923122.wav|it's the faithful from synagogues, mosques,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/925324.wav|temples, and churches who welcome them,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/928627.wav|the first to offer blankets and food
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/930629.wav|and open their homes.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/935934.wav|Even now, people of different faiths and beliefs
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/938470.wav|are coming together to help people suffering in Flint.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/945978.wav|And then there's the most -- less spectacular,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/948213.wav|more quiet efforts of congregations all across
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/952518.wav|this country just helping people.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/958290.wav|Seeing God in others.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/961493.wav|And we're driven to do this because we're driven by the
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/966732.wav|value that so many of our faiths teach us -- I am my
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/970736.wav|brother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/976608.wav|As Christians, we do this compelled by the Gospel of
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/979912.wav|Jesus -- the command to love God, and love one another.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/988654.wav|And so, yes, like every person,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/991223.wav|there are times where I'm fearful.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/993225.wav|But my faith and, more importantly,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/999231.wav|the faith that I've seen in so many of you,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1004770.wav|the God I see in you, that makes me inevitably hopeful
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1010075.wav|about our future.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1012544.wav|I have seen so many who know that God has not given us a
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1016048.wav|spirit of fear.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1018016.wav|He has given us power, and love, and a sound mind.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1024990.wav|We see that spirit in people like Pastor Saeed Abedini,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1028861.wav|imprisoned for no crime other than holding
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1031130.wav|God in his heart.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1033499.wav|And last year, we prayed that he might be freed.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1036101.wav|And this year, we give thanks that he is home safe.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1047579.wav|We pray for God's protection for all around the world who
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1051483.wav|are not free to practice their faith,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1054319.wav|including Christians who are persecuted,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1057289.wav|or who have been driven from their ancient homelands by
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1059925.wav|unspeakable violence.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1064997.wav|And just as we call on other countries to respect the
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1067566.wav|rights of religious minorities, we, too,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1072204.wav|respect the right of every single American to practice
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1074673.wav|their faith freely.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1084249.wav|For this is what each of us is called on to do: To seek
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1088520.wav|our common humanity in each other.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1091757.wav|To make sure our politics and our public discourse
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1095360.wav|reflect that same spirit of love and sound mind.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1101667.wav|To assume the best in each other and not just the worst
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1106872.wav|-- and not just at the National Prayer Breakfast.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1114146.wav|To begin each of our works from the shared belief that
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1117015.wav|all of us want what's good and right for our country
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1121587.wav|and our future.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1128894.wav|We can draw such strength from the quiet moments of
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1131864.wav|heroism around us every single day.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1134633.wav|And so let me close with two such stories that I've come
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1138136.wav|to know just over the past week.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1142808.wav|A week ago, I spoke at a ceremony held at the Israeli
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1151850.wav|Embassy for the first time, honoring the courage of
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1158290.wav|people who saved Jews during the Holocaust.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1160826.wav|And one of the recipients was the grandson -- or the
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1172337.wav|son of an American soldier who had been captured
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1179545.wav|by the Nazis.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1182347.wav|So a group of American soldiers are captured,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1187753.wav|and their captors ordered Jewish POWs
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1191423.wav|to identify themselves.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1198397.wav|And one sergeant, a Christian named Roddie Edmonds,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1205170.wav|from Tennessee, ordered all American troops
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1212277.wav|to report alongside them.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1217683.wav|They lined up in formation, approximately 200 of them,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1225824.wav|and the Nazi colonel said, I asked only for the Jewish
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1229895.wav|POWs, and said, These can't all be Jewish.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1238136.wav|And Master Sergeant Edmonds stood there and said,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1245110.wav|We are all Jews.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1251416.wav|And the colonel took out his pistol and held it to the
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1257489.wav|Master Sergeant's head and said,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1259591.wav|Tell me who the Jews are.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1261059.wav|And he repeated, We are all Jews.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1270302.wav|And faced with the choice of shooting all those soldiers,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1274006.wav|the Nazis relented.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1280512.wav|And so, through his moral clarity,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1283281.wav|through an act of faith, Sergeant Edmonds saved the
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1287185.wav|lives of his Jewish brothers-in-arms.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1300899.wav|A second story.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1302000.wav|Just yesterday, some of you may be aware I visited a
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1304803.wav|mosque in Baltimore to let our Muslim-American brothers
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1313345.wav|and sisters know that they, too,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1317182.wav|are Americans and welcome here.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1326692.wav|And there I met a Muslim-American named
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1328794.wav|Rami Nashashibi, who runs a nonprofit working for social
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1333732.wav|change in Chicago.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1335167.wav|And he forms coalitions with churches and Latino groups
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1341073.wav|and African Americans in this poor neighborhood
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1344910.wav|in Chicago.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1345544.wav|And he told me how the day after the tragedy in
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1349047.wav|San Bernardino happened, he took his three young children to
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1353418.wav|a playground in the Marquette Park neighborhood,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1359024.wav|and while they were out, the time came for one of the
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1362728.wav|five daily prayers that are essential
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1366031.wav|to the Muslim tradition.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1369634.wav|And on any other day, he told me,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1371636.wav|he would have immediately put his rug out on the grass
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1375240.wav|right there and prayed.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1376875.wav|But that day, he paused.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1381346.wav|He feared any unwelcome attention he might attract
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1386118.wav|to himself and his children.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1387486.wav|And his seven year-old daughter asked him,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1394593.wav|What are you doing, Dad?
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1397996.wav|Isn't it time to pray?
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1403068.wav|And he thought of all the times he had told her the
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1407239.wav|story of the day that Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1411710.wav|and Rabbi Robert Marx, and 700 other people marched
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1417916.wav|to that very same park, enduring hatred and bigotry,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1422921.wav|dodging rocks and bottles, and hateful words,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1427659.wav|in order to challenge Chicago housing segregation,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1433465.wav|and to ask America to live up to our highest ideals.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1439037.wav|And so, at that moment, drawing from the courage of
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1442073.wav|men of different religions, of a different time,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1448380.wav|Rami refused to teach his children to be afraid.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1453952.wav|Instead, he taught them to be a part of that legacy of
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1456688.wav|faith and good conscience.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1458723.wav|I want them to understand that sometimes faith will be
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1461893.wav|tested, he told me, and that we will be asked to
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1465163.wav|show immense courage, like others have before us,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1469935.wav|to make our city, our country,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1472437.wav|and our world a better reflection of all our ideals.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1476975.wav|And he put down his rug and he prayed.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1486184.wav|Now, those two stories, they give me courage and they
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1491089.wav|give me hope.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1493325.wav|And they instruct me in my own Christian faith.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1499097.wav|I can't imagine a moment in which that young American
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1503034.wav|sergeant expressed his Christianity more profoundly
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1507305.wav|than when, confronted by his own death,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1510475.wav|he said We are all Jews.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1517515.wav|I can't imagine a clearer expression of Jesus's teachings.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1525223.wav|I can't imagine a better expression of the peaceful
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1529594.wav|spirit of Islam than when a Muslim father,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1532898.wav|filled with fear, drew from the example of a Baptist
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1537035.wav|preacher and a Jewish rabbi to teach his children
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1543642.wav|what God demands.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1552217.wav|For God has not given us a spirit of fear,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1558757.wav|but of power and of love and of a sound mind.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1565797.wav|I pray that by His grace, we all find the courage to set
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1570568.wav|such examples in our own lives -- not just during
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1576975.wav|this wonderful gathering and fellowship,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1580946.wav|not just in the public piety that we profess,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1587052.wav|but in those smaller moments when it's difficult,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1592390.wav|when we're challenged, when we're angry,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1597028.wav|when we're confronted with someone who doesn't agree
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1599030.wav|with us, when no one is watching.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1605603.wav|I pray, as Roma* so beautifully said,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1609808.wav|that our differences ultimately are bridged;
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1614679.wav|that the God that is in each of us comes together,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1622854.wav|and we don't divide.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1627625.wav|I pray that our leaders will always act with humility
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1629761.wav|and generosity.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1632197.wav|I pray that my failings are forgiven.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1642707.wav|I pray that we will uphold our obligation to be good
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1646344.wav|stewards of God's creation -- this beautiful planet.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1650882.wav|I pray that we will see every single child as our
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1653651.wav|own, each worthy of our love and of our compassion.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1659324.wav|And I pray we answer Scripture's call to lift up
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1661659.wav|the vulnerable, and to stand up for justice,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1665296.wav|and ensure that every human being lives in dignity.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1670835.wav|That's my prayer for this breakfast,
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1672804.wav|and for this country, in the years to come.
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1676441.wav|May God bless you, and may He continue to bless this
output_data/MxBdzH66wZo/1678443.wav|country that we love.
